---
layout: post
title:  "Hybrid Cloud for Dummies"
date:   2016-01-20 21:10:00
comments: true
published: false
tags: cloud hybrid
---

If you've ever thought to yourself that the term "Hybrid Cloud" is
merely a buzzword bingo square (like "synergy",) you're not alone.
Either public cloud providers host your application on their
resources, or you use your own private resources, right?

While this was once the case, the lines are becoming blurred today and
an enterprise may have its data, web servers, databases, etc. in a
local data center or hosted on a public provider and integrated
seamlessly into a single application.  Housing application tiers in
geographically remote locations as well as among diverse
infrastructure providers is easier than ever.  Barring legal
constraints, there are almost no end to the combinations of
public/private hosting arrangements for components in an application.
This is possible due to evolving architectural concepts of course, but
also because of the extreme elasticity, reliability, and convenience
that public clouds offer.  Virtual private networking is a concept
that is often glossed over yet it is a major contributer to the
capabilities of hybrid cloud, and would otherwise subject all of us to
public or private alone.

Often a company will have some resources on the public cloud but they
don't have a good handle on the use case for hybrid.  This isn't
exactly a well defined area of operation even though the term is
heavily used these days.  With a dearth of real world examples
available, my first blog post (the one you're reading now :) is simply
an introduction to an upcoming series which will demonstrate actual
hybrid cloud application design and implementation archetypes.

While I'm off creating that content, <a
href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lCnAZjB2bHA&list=PLhr1KZpdzukeD0iBeDI9WqZLYtuaFaaGc&index=58">this
overview of hybrid architectures</a> from the AWS Summit NYC 2015 is
worth looking at.

Ciao.
